TITLE IX—Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

SEC. 90001.  Elimination of the FERS annuity supplement for certain employees.

(a) In general.—Section 8421(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting “separated from service under section 8425
or entitled to an annuity under subsection (d) or (e) of section 8412 of this
title” after “individual”; and

(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting “separated from service under section 8425
or entitled to an annuity under subsection (d) or (e) of section 8412 of this
title” after “an individual”.

(b) Applicability.—The amendments made by this section shall begin to apply on
January 1, 2028, and shall not apply with respect to any individual entitled
to an annuity supplement under section 8421 of title 5, United States Code,
prior to such date.

SEC. 90002. Election for at-will employment and lower FERS contributions for
new Federal civil service hires.

(a) Election.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of [chapter
33](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title5-chapter33-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:

** “§ 3330g. Election for at-will employment and lower FERS contributions

**

“(a) Election.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the last day of the probationary period (if
any) for an individual initially appointed to a covered position after the
date of the enactment of this section, such individual may make an irrevocable
election to be employed on an at-will basis, subject to the requirements of
this section.

“(2) FAILURE TO MAKE ELECTION.—An individual who does not make the election
under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the requirements of section
8422(a)(3)(D).

“(b) At-will employment.—Notwithstanding chapter 43, 71, or 75 of this title,
any individual who makes an affirmative election under subsection (a)(1)
shall—

“(1) be considered an at-will employee; and

“(2) may be subject to an adverse action up to and including removal, without
notice or right to appeal, by the head of the agency at which the individual
is employed for good cause, bad cause, or no cause at all.

“(c) Application of other laws.—Notwithstanding any other requirement of this
section, this section shall not be construed to reduce, extinguish, or
otherwise effect any right or remedy available to any individual who elects to
be an at-will employee under subsection (a)(1) under any of the following
provisions of law:

“(1) The protections relating to prohibited personnel practices (as that term
is defined in section 2302).

“(2) The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, in the case of employees of
the legislative branch who are subject to this section.

“(d) Covered position.—In this section, the term ‘covered position’—

“(1) means—

“(A) any position in the competitive service;

“(B) a career appointee position in the Senior Executive Service;

“(C) a position in the excepted service; and

“(2) does not include—

“(A) any position excepted from the competitive service because of its
confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating
character;

“(B) any position excluded from the coverage of section 2302 (by operation of
subsection (a)(2)(B) of such section) or chapter 75; or

“(C) any position subject to mandatory separation under section 8335 or
8425.”.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for such subchapter is amended
by adding after the item relating to section 3330f the following:

  
“3330g. Election for at-will employment and lower FERS contributions.”.

(b) Increase in FERS contributions.—Section 8422(a) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(D) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service by
any individual who elects not to be employed on an at-will basis under section
3330g shall be equal to the percentage required under subparagraph (C),
increased by 5 percentage points.”.

(c) Application.—This section and the amendments made by this section shall
apply to individuals initially appointed to positions in the civil service
subject to such section and amendments appointed on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 90003.  Filing fee for Merit Systems Protection Board claims and appeals.

(a) In general.—Section 7701 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (l); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (j) the following:

“(k) (1) The Board shall establish and collect a filing fee to be paid by any
employee, former employee, or applicant for employment filing a claim or
appeal with the Board under this title, or under any other law, rule, or
regulation, consistent with the requirements of this subsection.

“(2) The filing fee under paragraph (1) shall—

“(A) be in an amount equal to the filing fee for a civil action, suit, or
proceeding under section 1914(a) of title 28;

“(B) be paid on the date the individual submits a claim or appeal to the
Board; and

“(C) if the individual is the prevailing party under such claim or appeal, be
returned to such individual.

“(3) The filing fee under this subsection shall not be required for any—

“(A) action brought by the Special Counsel under section 1214, 1215, or 1216;
or

“(B) any claim or appeal of a prohibited personnel practice described in
section 2302(b)(8) or 2302(b)(9)(A)(i), (B), (C), or (D) or in section 1221.

“(4) On the date that a claim or appeal with respect to which the individual
is not the prevailing party has not been appealed and is no longer appealable
because the time for taking an appeal has expired, or which has been appealed
under section 7703 and the appeals process for which is completed, the fee
collected under paragraph (1) shall, except as provided in paragraph (2)(C),
be deposited into the miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury.”.

(b) Application.—The fee required under the amendment made by subsection (a)
shall apply to any claim or appeal filed with the Merit Systems Protection
Board after the date that is 3 months after the date of the enactment of this
section.

SEC. 90004.  FEHB protection.

(a) FEHB improvements.—

(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:

(A) DIRECTOR.—The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management.

(B) EMPLOYING OFFICE.—The term “employing office” has the meaning given the
term in section 890.101(a) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation.

(C) HEALTH BENEFITS PLAN; MEMBER OF FAMILY.—The terms “health benefits plan”
and “member of family” have the meanings given those terms in section 8901 of
title 5, United States Code.

(D) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—The term “Inspector General” means the Inspector
General of the Office of Personnel Management.

(E) OPEN SEASON.—The term “open season” means an open season described in
section 890.301(f) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor
regulation.

(F) PROGRAM.—The term “Program” means the health insurance programs carried
out under [chapter 89](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-
prelim-title5-chapter89-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 5, United States
Code, including the program carried out under section 8903c of that title.

(G) QUALIFYING LIFE EVENT.—The term “qualifying life event” has the meaning
given the term in section 892.101 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or
any successor regulation.

(2) VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director shall issue regulations and implement a process to verify—

(i) the veracity of any qualifying life event through which an enrollee in the
Program seeks to add a member of family with respect to the enrollee to a
health benefits plan under the Program; and

(ii) that, when an enrollee in the Program seeks to add a member of family
with respect to the enrollee to the health benefits plan of the enrollee under
the Program, including during any open season, the individual so added is a
qualifying member of family with respect to the enrollee.

(B) RECORD RETENTION.—The process implemented under subparagraph (A) shall
require the records used for a verification described in such subparagraph
under such process with respect to an individual enrolled in a health benefits
plan under the Program to be provided to the Office of Personnel Management
and retained by the Office of Personnel Management until the expiration of a
six-year period beginning after the date of such verification in which such
individual is not enrolled in a health benefits plan under the Program.

(3) FRAUD RISK ASSESSMENT.—In any fraud risk assessment conducted with respect
to the Program on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director
shall include an assessment of individuals who are enrolled in, or covered
under, a health benefits plan under the Program even though those individuals
are not eligible to be so enrolled or covered.

(4) FAMILY MEMBER ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION AUDIT.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—During the 5-year period beginning 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Director shall conduct a comprehensive audit
regarding members of family who are covered under an enrollment in a health
benefits plan under the Program.

(B) CONTENTS.—In conducting an audit required by subparagraph (A), the
Director shall review marriage certificates, birth certificates, and other
appropriate documents that are necessary to determine eligibility to enroll in
a health benefits plan under the Program.

(C) RECORD RETENTION.—All records pertaining to the eligibility of an
individual to be enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under
the Program obtained by the Director in the audit required by subparagraph (A)
shall be retained by the Office of Personnel Management until the expiration
of a six-year period beginning after the date of such audit in which such
individual is not enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under
the Program.

(D) REFERRAL TO INSPECTOR GENERAL.—The Director shall refer any instances of
individuals enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under the
Program who are not eligible to be so enrolled or covered that are identified
in the audit required by subparagraph (A) to the Inspector General.

(5) DISENROLLMENT OR REMOVAL.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director shall develop a process by which any individual
enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under the Program who is
not eligible to be so enrolled or covered shall be disenrolled or removed from
enrollment in a health benefits plan under the Program.

(B) NOTIFY INSPECTOR GENERAL.—The Director shall notify the Inspector General
of each individual disenrolled or removed from enrollment in a health benefits
plan under the Program under the process developed under subparagraph (A).

(b) Earned benefits and healthcare administrative services associated
oversight and audit funding.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 8909(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended
by striking “Congress.” and inserting “Congress, except that the amounts
authorized under subsection (b)(2) for the Office shall not be subject to the
limitations that may be specified annually by Congress.”.

(2) OVERSIGHT.—Section 8909(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—

(A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (5); and

(B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:

“(2) In addition to the funds provided under paragraph (1), amounts of all
contributions shall be available for the Office to develop, maintain, and
conduct ongoing eligibility verification and oversight over the enrollment and
eligibility systems with respect to benefits under this chapter, including the
Postal Service Health Benefits Program under section 8903c. Amounts for the
Office under this paragraph shall not be available in excess of the following
amounts in the following fiscal years:

“(A) In fiscal year 2026, $36,792,000.

“(B) In fiscal year 2027, $44,733,161.

“(C) In fiscal year 2028, $50,930,778.

“(D) In fiscal year 2029, $54,198,238.

“(E) In fiscal year 2030, $54,855,425.

“(F) In fiscal year 2031, $56,062,244.

“(G) In fiscal year 2032, $57,295,613.

“(H) In fiscal year 2033, $58,556,117.

“(I) In fiscal year 2034, $59,844,351.

“(J) In fiscal year 2035 and each fiscal year thereafter, the amount equal to
the dollar limit for the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by 2.2.
percent.

“(3) In fiscal year 2026, $80,000,000, to be derived from all contributions
and to remain available until expended, shall be available for the Office to
conduct the audit required under section 90004(a)(4) of the Act titled ‘An Act
to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14’.

“(4) Amounts of all contributions shall be available for the Office of
Personnel Management Office of the Inspector General to conduct oversight
associated with activities under this chapter (including the Postal Service
Health Benefits Program under section 8903c), including activities associated
with enrollment and eligibility in these programs and any associated audit
activities as required under section 90004 of the Act titled ‘An Act to
provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14’. Amounts
for the Office of the Inspector General under this paragraph shall not be
available in excess of the following amounts in the following fiscal years:

“(A) In fiscal year 2026, $5,090,278.

“(B) In fiscal year 2027 and each fiscal year thereafter, the amount equal to
the dollar limit for the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by 2.2
percent.”.
